coral reefs are some of the most
spectacular ecosystems on the planet
they're also some of the most vulnerable
but how can we protect the reefs and the
animals and plants who rely on them and
how can we make sure that our protected
areas aren't hurting the people who use
the reefs to survive these are some of
the big questions facing marine
conservation biologists today let's take
Fiji for example Fiji is a series of
islands in the South Pacific Ocean to
help balance the need for conservation
and making a living scientists have
suggested that instead of one big park
which provides a lot of coverage for one
reef system while leaving the rest
unprotected a better way is to create a
system of protected areas nested
together like pearls on a string this
idea is called connectivity in this way
scientists can protect lots of different
habitats while not excluding people from
their traditional fishing grounds now
the only way this string of pearls kind
of reserve network is going to work is
if each Park is connected to other parks
there are two main benefits to this
first of all insurance if something bad
happens to one Park say an oil spill or
coral bleaching then because that park
is part of a system it can be receded
from other parks that escape to the
event the second benefit is
representation by conserving many
different areas
scientists ensure that lots of different
habitats get protected this way they can
make sure all the different marine
habitats of Fiji such as coral reefs
mangroves and seagrass beds are all
represented this way we don't unduly
settle any particular village or group
of people with the economic burden of
having their fishing grounds off-limits
by sharing the cost around the
communities that can also share the
benefits so if we agree that rather than
one big park we should have lots of
parks of different sizes and covering
different habitats then scientists need
to make sure that those smaller parks
are connected because if they're not
then they're probably not going to be
self-sustaining but how do we know that
that's where genetics and DNA come in by
looking at how closely related to fish
in each one of these small reserves of
Fiji are to each other scientists can
figure out just how much migration is
going on among the reserves within the
system now it's important to look at a
variety of different species because
there's no guarantee that what's going
on with these guys is what's going on
with these guys but if we look closely
and add enough species we can see
whether or not the necklaces where
what scientists have found so far is
that in general there's a fair amount of
connectivity amongst the parks within
Fiji but it's not just a big
free-for-all rather it seems that for
some species babies born in the Far West
are having a hard time making it to the
islands in the Far East to help deal
with that conservation biologists are
suggesting that there are enough parks
in both the east and the West to keep
the populations healthy this isn't just
in Fiji either lessons about reserve
connectivity can help across the world
in places like Indonesia Papua New
Guinea and the Bahamas scientists are
using a variety of tools to help
understand how individual parks can
function together so that their sum is
greater than their whole and this way we
can keep the beautiful necklace that is
our coral reefs in tact
Oh